# Time-Space-Synchronized FDTD Simulation
I am a retired software engineer. I like to play with computer coding. Among the coding I played is Schneider’s teaching book “Understanding the FDTD Method” (https://github.com/john-b-schneider/uFDTD).

One thing I found strange was that the field simulation results provided by an FDTD method could not be used to do calculations such as field energy transfer and field divergence. I did a quick search over the internet and did not find an answer. Since I am just playing with FDTD, not using a grant to do research, I did not bother to do a thorough research but simply came up with my owner solution. My solution is a new algorithm. To my surprise the new algorithm is better than the current FDTD in many major aspects, as explained below.
1.	It uses a non-staggered grid to give simulation results in a time and space synchronized manner. Therefore it is called a Time-Space-Synchronized FDTD algorithm (TSS FDTD, or in short, TSS). I believe it is the first algorithm that can do it. Please correct me if I am wrong. This feature is my sole motivation to develop this new algorithm. It makes it possible to calculate field divergence and energy transfer. If your project requires such calculations then my algorithm is a very good option.
2.	Its estimation order for time advancement is arbitrary. By “arbitrary” I mean that choosing estimation order does not affect memory usages and calculation algorithm. For example, choosing 4-th order and choosing 40-th order, same memory and programming code is used, just different numbers of iterations is used. I believe it is also the first algorithm that can do it. Increasing estimation order greatly increases simulation accuracy.
3.	The higher order of time advancement estimation is realized via getting higher order temporal derivatives from higher order space curls, NOT via time history of fields. I believe this is also the first algorithm doing time advancement estimation in this way. Using time history of fields CANNOT increase estimation accuracy because there is not new information involved. Using higher order space curls for higher order temporal derivatives can greatly enhance estimation accuracy because new information is utilized. 
4.	Its estimation order for space curl is arbitrary but limited to the number of space grid
5.	Its computational complexity with regard to the estimation order is linear. That means increasing a little calculation amount can increase accuracy greatly. Therefore, large step sizes can be used, which in turn reduces greatly the calculation amount. The combined effect is that the TSS algorithm is much faster and much more accurate than a traditional FDTD.
6.	A modular design is used for designing a simulation system. It separates field estimation algorithms from applying boundary conditions. Thus, it is very easy to apply different boundary conditions.
7.	It does not impose adverse restrictions, limitations, conditions, etc., to its applications comparing to traditional FDTD methods. For example, it can be used for inhomogeneous material just like a traditional FDTD does. That is, given a calculation task, if a traditional FDTD can be used then TSS algorithm can also be used.

You are very welcome to criticize the algorithm, to provide professional guidance, to contribute to the algorithm or to the coding. You can also take its basic ideas and merge it into your own projects, just show your courtesy by presenting a reference to their origin here.


